FOR 'HE ]IATIO3 AL IN7ELLIGENCER. The follawing is a proposition of Twv.MA a PAINE, made recen :ly in France, on a subject of acknowledge importance. MARITIME COMPACT; Or an Aifociation of Nations for the proteLcion of the Rights and Commerce of Nations that may be neutral in time, of war, addreff-i to the neutral Na tions, by a neutral.
WHEREAS the inconvenen ce and in-i As juries to which the commerce and rights a of neutral nations are expoli-d in- time of maritime war, render it abflutely necef-' fary that a law of nations be 'formed to, prevent' a continuation or repetition of thofe injuries, in all times to come, and to fecure to neutral nations the exercife ,d of their juft rights we, the following, Saffociation and compadt, eltablifling therer by a lakw of nations with refpe& to the Is sea. r· ART. I. r- That the commnn rights of nations, fuch as are exercifed by them in time' re of peace, in their intercourfe with each of i other, are, and ought to be, the rights of )f neutral nations at all times; becaufe they 'S have not forfeited themn, and cannot, of ), right be loft to them, in confequence of war breaking out between any two or -'more nations.--Such war being altoged' ther the a& of the nations making it, and not of the neutral nations, cannot in itl- felf, or in its confequences, affeA the n rights of the nations neutral and continuLd ing in a Rlate of peace. re I,. )f That the fhips or veltels of nations r- that may be neutral during fuch war,' LI have a right to pafs unmoletfed on the. feas, as in time of peace, (it being peace f with them) and to enter the port or ports it of any of the belligerent powers, with the r- content of that power, uninterrupted, un-I it vifited, and unfearched, by the party or' r parties with which that nation is ati C war. II. -. For the maintenance of the aforefaid, ;rights, we the underfigned powers declare,` ;' and for the performance thereof bind oury {elves in honour to each other, that if any a belligerent power shall feize, or molelt, It or fearch any 'thip or veff'el belonging to i= the citizens or fubje&s of any of the -.powers composing this affociation, that all Il and every of the parties cdmpofing this, alficiation, will ceafe'to import aind w\illI ~-not permit to be imported in aijy lhip ori 1 veflel whatever, any goods, wares or mner-i t chandize, from the nation fo offending againRt the law of nations 'hereby eaablifld ed. IV. e That all the ports. appertaining to the r powers compofing this affociation hflall r be (hut agalntR the flag of tte offending} nation. t V. That no remittances in money, goods for bills of exchange, .hall be made by - any of the citizens :or 'fubjedts of any Sof the powers compofing this' afIociation, t to the citizens or fubje&s 'of the offend- ing nation for the, term of one year, or Suntill reparation be miade...-.The repara"tion to ,be times the amount of he Sdamage received. VIo When any thip or--veffel belonging to the cit1zens or fubje&s of any of, the powSers compoling this affociation '(iall rb'e 'feized by any thip or veffel of any belligerent power, or be forcibly prevented _Intering the port of their defination, o: be feized, or molefled in coming there from, dr forcibly prevented 'proceeding lo; theplace where fhe is next bound, 't,! be fearched er vifite d;iyany :erEfn iezn-
ing from on board fuch flp, the executive government of, the nation to which ithe vefl :ob i'fized or -jrieled belongs, h1all, nwafcertainifig the fadt, make- vroclamation of the fame, and fend a copy thereof to the executive of each of the Governments compofing this affociation, who flhall publifh the fame. through hig 1 dominions, and proclaim, that at the expiration of days after the date thereof the execution of the extcictibn of the pe-, - nal articles againfl the offending nations s thall commence. . VII. If reparation he not made within the fpace of one year, the proclamation to be renewed for one year mnore, and foi .on. VIII. I The affociation eflablifhes a flag for its, felf to be carried by the (hips and veffels of every nation compofing this aflociation, in addition to its proper national flag. The flag to be a broad pennant at the - head of the main-maft compofed of the fame colours as comnpofe the rain-bowv, and arranged in the fame order as they ap .pear in that Phenomenon. IX. And whereas it may happen that fime ;one, or more, of the nations compofing c this affociation may be, at the time of "forming it, or in f'ome future time. in a Elate of war, the flfips and veffcls of fuch F nation (hall omit carrying the flag at the Imalt-head, but it {hall be bound round the main-malt to denote they are memhers of the affociation and refpe&ors of its laws. We the underfigned powers declare thefe articles to be a law of nations at all times, until a Congrefs of nations (hall meet to form fome law more effeaual; And we do recommend that immediately on the breaking out of war, between E any two or more nations, that deputies may be appointed by all the neatral nations, whether members of this E affociation or not, to meet in Congrefs r' in fome central place to take cognizance of any violations of the rights of neutral I nations by the belligerent powers. It may be judged-proper for thle order of bufinefs. that the affociation of - nations have a Prefident for a term of :eats, and to pal's by rotation thro' all Sthe parties compofing the affociation. In i that cafe, and for the fake of regularity, the f;rft Prefident to be the executive of ,:the moi northrly nation compnfing the .affociation, and his Deputy or Minifter at he Congrefs to be Prefident of the Congrefs : and the next moft northerly to he Vice Prefident who fliall fucceed at the expiration of the term, and fo on. Thr 1 line determinining the geographical ftuation to be the latitude of the capital of each nation..